docs: 📝 describe the build process in CONTRIBUTING (#157)
onlimit-study/feasibility-data: CONTRIBUTING.md

just run-all
```

## Build process

Like other types of packages (e.g. Rust, Python, R), the contents of the

> repository *build* the final data package, but aren't the data package itself.

Author: ```suggestion
repository *build* the final data package, but aren't the data package itself.
The repository contains the source code and raw data input, but isn't the package itself.
```

> We need to "compile" the code into the final data package.

Author: ```suggestion
We need to first "compile" the code and the raw data input into the final data package.
```

  no other data artifact is kept in the Git history.
- The metadata file is generated from the Python code into `datapackage.json`
  and the resource files are generated from the `staging/` data. The metadata
  file is the only file saved in the Git history during this phase. We use
  [Sprout](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/) along with
  [pytask](https://pytask-dev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to handle this section
  of the build process.
- The data package is built into one `.tar` file that contains the metadata file
  (`datapackage.json`), `LICENSE.md`, `README.md`, and the resource files. It is
  also built into a `.zip` file with the same files except for the data. This
  `.zip` file will be what is uploaded to public archives, while the `.tar` file
  remains in the server. The `.tar` and `.zip` files are saved into a Git
  ignored `releases/` directory, with the filename being the name of the data
  package and the version number (e.g. `feasibility-data_0.1.0.tar`).

<!-- TODO: Do we also want to store the README in the `.tar` file? Any other files? -->

What this means during development is that:

> - Do *not* save or store any data in the Git LFS. Outside of the build process,

Author: ```suggestion
- No data is saved or stored in the Git LFS. Outside of the build process,
```

  we treat any data pulled from sources or processed into staging or resources
  as temporary.
- Pull requests should *not* contain any changes to the `datapackage.json` file
  nor any additions of data in `raw/`, `staging/`, or `resources/`. These files
  are generated during the build process and should not be modified or added
  directly.
- Commit messages should still be written in the Conventional Commits format,

>   though the apecific commit types used are a bit different considering no data

Author: ```suggestion
  though the specific commit types used are a bit different considering no data
```

just run-all
```

## Build process

Like other types of packages (e.g. Rust, Python, R), the contents of the
repository *build* the final data package, but aren't the data package itself.
The repository contains the source code and raw data input, but isn't the package itself.
We need to first "compile" the code and the raw data input into the final data package.

Here are some of the steps involved in the build process:

- The raw data is pulled from the source locations during the build process,
  saved into `raw/` and processed into `staging/`. We use
  [pytask](https://pytask-dev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to manage this phase of
  the build process.

> - The `raw/` data files are saved into the Git LFS during the build process, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `raw/` data files are saved into Git LFS during the build process, but
```
or: the Git LFS store

  no other data artifact is kept in the Git history.
- The metadata file is generated from the Python code into `datapackage.json`

>   and the resource files are generated from the `staging/` data. The metadata

Reviewer: Does this mean we don't commit the "raw" metadata files downloaded from e.g. REDCap?

Author: Hm, if it's part of the build process, yea, I guess it would only be saved during the build and release process.

But it's added manually e.g. by @signekb, so that would be saved.

  file is the only file saved in the Git history during this phase. We use
  [Sprout](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/) along with
  [pytask](https://pytask-dev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to handle this section
  of the build process.
- The data package is built into one `.tar` file that contains the metadata file
  (`datapackage.json`), `LICENSE.md`, `README.md`, and the resource files. It is
  also built into a `.zip` file with the same files except for the data. This
  `.zip` file will be what is uploaded to public archives, while the `.tar` file

>   remains in the server. The `.tar` and `.zip` files are saved into a Git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  remains on the server. The `.tar` and `.zip` files are saved into a Git
```

  ignored `releases/` directory, with the filename being the name of the data
  package and the version number (e.g. `feasibility-data_0.1.0.tar`).

> <!-- TODO: Do we also want to store the README in the `.tar` file? Any other files? -->

Reviewer: I think you say above that we do

> <!-- TODO: Do we also want to store the README in the `.tar` file? Any other files? -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO: Do we want to store the README and other files in the `.tar` and `zip` files? Others? -->
```

What this means during development is that:

> - No data is saved or stored in the Git LFS. Outside of the build process,

Reviewer: As in, other than raw data?

Author: During development, no data is stored. During the build, only raw data is stored.

> - No data is saved or stored in the Git LFS. Outside of the build process,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No data is saved or stored in Git LFS. Outside of the build process,
```

  we treat any data pulled from sources or processed into staging or resources
  as temporary.
- Pull requests should *not* contain any changes to the `datapackage.json` file
  nor any additions of data in `raw/`, `staging/`, or `resources/`. These files
  are generated during the build process and should not be modified or added

>   directly.

Reviewer: And how will we pull new raw files? Will the build process run automatically and commit them? (I haven't looked at the other PR yet)

Author: You can run the build process whenever you want, you can pull the raw data files whenever you want. You just can't save the raw data outside of the build and release process.

Reviewer: Ah, so I run the build process and it commits the raw files?

Author: No, sorry, I can make that clearer. The release process saves things. It is explained more in that release PR.

  phase of the build process.
- The `raw/` data files are saved into Git LFS during the build and release
  (described below) process, but no other data artifact is kept in the Git
  history.
- The metadata file is generated from the Python code into `datapackage.json`
  and the resource files are generated from the `staging/` data. The metadata
  file is the only file saved in the Git history during the build and release
  phase. We use [Sprout](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/) along with
  [pytask](https://pytask-dev.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to handle this section
  of the build process.
- The data package is built into one `.tar` file that contains the metadata file
  (`datapackage.json`), `LICENSE.md`, `README.md`, and the resource files. It is
  also built into a `.zip` file with the same files except for the data. This
  `.zip` file will be what is uploaded to public archives, while the `.tar` file
  remains on the server. The `.tar` and `.zip` files are saved into a Git
  ignored `releases/` directory, with the filename being the name of the data
  package and the version number (e.g. `feasibility-data_0.1.0.tar`).

> <!-- TODO: Do we want to store the README and other files in the `.tar` and `zip` files? Others? -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO: Do we want to store other files in the `.tar` and `.zip` files?  -->
```

What this means during development is that:

> - No data is saved or stored in Git LFS. Outside of the build and release

Reviewer 2: This contradicts what was said on L60 (that raw data files are saved into Git LFS)?

Author: Not strictly, since the list is for stuff during development. But, I need to update this based on review comments in the data package guide. I think we'd have to make manually pull the raw data down and have a PR just for that update, so we can correctly assign the conventional commits type to the PR. So I'll update here and in the guide

Author: I'll update this comment in another PR, where I'll trim down this text and point to the data-pkg-guide instead.

  (described below) process, we treat any data pulled from sources or processed
  into staging or resources as temporary.
- Pull requests should *not* contain any changes to the `datapackage.json` file
  nor any additions of data in `raw/`, `staging/`, or `resources/`. These files
  are generated during the build process and should not be modified or added
  directly.
- Commit messages should still be written in the Conventional Commits format,
  though the specific commit types used are a bit different considering no data
  or metadata files are being modified directly. See the [release
  process](#release-process) section below for more details on commit messages
  to use.

> ::: callout-tip

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
::: callout-note
```
